In this video, we learn how to draw patterns in different patterns we can draw and those we can do
it easily using nested follows.
So already we have learned about nested follow.
So let us draw some patterns.
So before showing you what pattern I want to draw, first of all, I will explain you about nested follow.
See, I have taken a four by four box here that is 01230123.
And these are my values and these are values.
So we have already learned that nested for loops.
If you have followed inside for loop, then these two follows together will allow you to access all
the elements, all the elements, all the locations.
Right?
This was in two dimensional that I have shown you.
So actually the value of I and J will be first time 00010203 then 10111213.
So on the values of IMG will be changing like this.
Now, based on those values, I have drawn the box.
This is not a matrix, right?
Just.
I have drawn a box.
Now let us look at the first pattern.
One of the pattern I'll show you here in this video what I want to display.
I want to display on the screen display this pattern, this pattern like this.
So the same as this.
So it means first I should print one when I should print one when IMG both are zero zero.
Next I should print it to when I is zero and j is one.
So three, then four, then five.
It should come in next line six, seven, eight, the next line nine, ten, so on.
So for displaying the numbers like this in a box like thing, I need first of all a counter that should
start from one, two, three, four, so on.
It should be incrementing and it should be increasing the value and printing it.
Then I want to print them like this matrix like so nested follows will help us then.
So for these values I should have a variable called count and that count initially one.
So I'm not writing a complete main function, I'm just showing the piece of code.
Now here in this nested for loop, I will print see out count.
So count.
Then after displaying a number, I should give some space also.
So for that gives some space just in double quotes, give one space that's enough.
So one will be printed next time.
Two will be printed and three will be printed, so on.
And after the end of each line I want next line, the next output in the next line.
So this for loop in there for loop will complete the line.
One, two, three, four.
Right.
So once this inner for loop has finished, I should get a new line.
So this will go into the next line.
This will appear in the next slide.
That's it.
So in the main function you declare variable count.
And here I go.
So you can write entire in J and write on the score.
This will print the pattern like this on the screen.
So that's it.
That's the first pattern.
Now, next video, we will see another pattern.
So you practice this one, write a program and check it.